---
layout: english
title: Celerio Guide - Best practices
---

Best practices
==============

Source control
--------------

Celerio works in harmony with a source-control system (SVN or CVS). To
really take advantage of Celerio's features, you must use a
source-control system for the your project. However, it is important to
commit only what is strictly necessary as we will see.

### When the project starts

As soon as you start your project you should commit in your source
control at least the files that are generated by the `bootstrap` goal,
that is, the `pom.xml` file, the Celerio configuration file and the SQL
files. This way Celerio won't overwrite them each time you regenerate
your project.

Certain generated files are meant to be modified to fit your business
needs. You should not hesitate to commit them early in your development
process. In general this is the case for the following files:
`src/main/resources/spring/applicationContext-http-security.xml` ,
`src/main/resources/spring/springmvc-webapp.xml`, etc.

### Do not commit the generated Java files

Never commit the folders `src/main/generated-java` or
`src/test/generated-java` . You would have keep them in sync manually
with your source control each time you regenerate your project. As for
classes generated by the compiler, you should not commit the Java
generated files.

### Pages or Controllers

We recommend to do not commit the generated JSP/xhtml pages and to do
not take control over the generated Java controllers (
`<TableName>Controller.java` )

Instead, create your own JSP and controllers and use the generated ones
as source for handy copy paste.

Indeed, there is absolutely no reason that the generated JSPs will fit
the end user need. This part is really close to the application
business. Keep the generated page as a reference or eventually a simple
administration zone of your application.

Use a 'Development' Database
----------------------------

At least during the early phase of your development, we encourage you to
use a database such as H2Database to be more productive. Indeed, there
is nothing to install or configure and you can experiment easily some
new database schema.
